---
title: "About me"
date: 2021-08-15 19:59:24-0600
tags:
  - biography
  - rambling
  - self
---

# Where I come from

My name is Jim Hessin. I am a husband, father of three, stay at home dad,
sometimes dishwasher at the rest home, and avid programmer. I have a degree
in game software development, not that that means anything. I like figuring
things out on the computer in my spare time.

I was born in St. Louis, MO. Moved in the third grade to South Texas. Moved
around a bit but settled into the McAllen area for High School. Went to
Pan-American University for a semester in Electrical Engineering then decided
to join the military to help pay for school. I joined the National Guard in
January of 2001. I was in AIT (Advanced Individual Training) giving blood when
the twin towers fell.

After finishing training I transferred to UT-Austin with my second choice as
major Physics. I relearned quite a bit for a semester before running out of
funds again. I signed on with one of those college sales gigs selling
encyclopedias door to door in Canandaigua, NY. Half way through that I had to
go to annual training with the military - during which I had the epiphany that
I was not cut out for sales. I found the pressure to be too much so I didn't go
back. I took some time off of school to reevaluate my life.

I worked several different places: Radio Shack and Home Depot were the longest
runs. Bounced around here and there. I settled in Charlotte, NC with my folks
and started going to college again. UNC-Charlotte this time. I discovered
something interesting: Colleges don't trust each other. Nobody accepts
transferred credits. I had to retake a bunch of stuff before I could get back
to where I was. I tried to ease into it, but it was just a waste of time. After
a deployment to Iraq I finally ended up dropping out and working at a Marble
Slab Ice Cream Shop in Matthews, NC.

This is where my life changed forever. A girl came in asking about the music I
was playing. It was my iPod loaded up with Christian music. Her sister was the
one who ended up roping us together and to make a long story short we ended up
getting married, and after a second tour in Iraq I left the military and we
moved to her hometown in Mullen, NE.

So when people ask where I'm from I just tend to give them a blank stare...
