---
title: "Love!?!"
date: 2021-08-18 07:24:13-0600
tags:
  - bible
---

# What is Love?

So I was reading [1 Cor.
13](https://www.revisedenglishversion.com/1Cor/13/nav1) this morning and it got
me thinking about our understanding of love. As a Christian I know that love is
an action and that it is a choice that we make. The feeling that is associated
with love is not **love** but a natural reaction to _being_ loved.

But do I live like that is what I believe? I remember when my wife and I were
dating and she wanted us to write down 100 reasons that we loved each other. I
remember at the time I hated it but I couldn't put in to words why. Now I
understand though.

When we asked each other "Why do you love me?" What we were really asking was
"How do you recognize the love I show you?" Because the truth is we don't need
a reason to love. Jesus was imprisoned, beaten, kept awake, beaten some more,
and finally crucified on a roman cross and he still loved those who were
doing it. Why? Because he **chose** to. It had nothing to do with _them_ and
everything to do with **HIM**!

So when we, in our naivety, were asking for reasons we should have realized we
didn't need any. Love is a concious decision that a person makes to value
another person. The question we should have asked was "How can **I** love
**you**?"

# Soul Mates?

This got me thinking about a terrible misconception that has even stymied other
Christians: Soul Mates? Short answer there is no such thing. The idea that each
person has a single other person that they are _meant_ to be with is utterly
absurd. Not only is it a smack in the face of free will, but it sews seeds of
doubt in every relationship: "What if I'm not meant to be with this person?",
"What if this other person is actually my soul mate?", etc.

The fact of the matter is we **choose** who to love! When we realize this it is
incredibly empowering. That means that if you choose to love someone then that
should be the end of the discussion. Nothing can keep you from acting on that
love, from prioritizing their needs above others, even your own.

I remember my wife once asked me (back before we were married) what I would do
if she refused to love me. I remember I told her I would love her as much as
she would let me - even from a distance if necessary. Because love is wanting
the best for someone and acting in accordance with that wish. So if someone you
love decides they don't love you and is happy in another relationship - don't
let your heart turn to bitterness. If you truly **love** them you should be
happy for them, otherwise it wasn't love, but your emotional reaction to
_their_ love.

So may you choose to love - not to simply react, but to actively **choose**! If
you are searching for "fireworks" or that _feeling_ of love that people often
talk about - stop. That feeling is only the body's natural reaction to
**being** loved and has no bearing on your **CHOICE**!

## What about personal preference?

Well that is a good point. Some people have quirks about them that can be
positive or negative. "She snorts when she laughs", or "He has this weird wart
on his cheek". But those are truly ancillary. A prime example is my wife's
sneeze. She often says "bah-duh" after every sneeze. I have always found it
endearing because it is an identifying quirk. Others may find something like
that annoying - but that to is a **choice**. If you choose to focus on the
negative aspects of a person they will continue to be negative, but if you
choose to overlook them then, over time, they will lose their negativity. My
wife and I have been married for fifteen years and it hasn't always been easy,
but one thing that has always remained is the fact that we never let the
little things drive us away. My dad had a saying "Don't sweat the small
stuff, and remember it's **all** small stuff!" That couldn't be truer.

Jesus said [Mark 7:15](https://www.revisedenglishversion.com/Mark/7/nav15/1) -
"there is nothing outside a person that by going into them is able to defile
them. But the things that come out of the person are the things that defile
that person." This means that no matter what someone does to you or how they
may treat you there is nothing that can corrupt **your** heart except how you
treat them. That is a concious choice that you make. One of my wife's favorite
sayings: [ 1 Cor. 13:8a](https://www.revisedenglishversion.com/1Cor/13/nav8)
"Love Never Fails!" This is the culmination of everything into a glorious new
life - because if you always show love **YOU** will be the one to feel it in
the end.
